---
layout: post
title:  "Week 13 -- You never get a second chance to make a first impression."
date:   2022-12-26 12:14:38 -0700
category: weekly
---

The first impression that you give to someone is something that they will never forget. It is important to try and give the best first impression that you can, although there will be sometimes that you will not be able to control what someone thinks about you the first time they meet you. When you want to get hired at a job that you desire, the first impression that they will have of you will be your CV, so it is really important to make it remarkable.

There are a few steps to follow in order to make a remarkable CV. First, you must give a brief introduction about yourself. You must be original and "sell youself", meaning that you must give the recruiter a reason to hire you. You have to take into account that each recruiter reads a lot of CVs per day, so in order to stand out, yours must be different. It must be brief but concise, nowadays everyone is in a hurry, so try to go straight to the point. 

Now that you have introduced yourself, you must talk about the skills that you have. Nowadays both soft and technical skills have the same importance. You can have the best technical skills for the position, but if you do not know how to communicate properly, or you are not a good teammate, you are of no use to the company. Being brief and concise with your skills will be taken into account by the recruiter.

### How can I make better CVs?
The advice given above does not assure you that you will be hired. There are a lot of factors to take into account for the process, but it will surely give you a small advantage against the ones that send messy CVs. There will be sometimes that the recruiter is in a hurry and they will not be able to read all of the CVs or maybe they just found a good fit for the position before they read your CV. These situations should not disencourage of applying to positions that you find good for you. It is important to always think of new ways of getting attention on your CVs and your skills. Also, getting certified in tools and skills is always a huge addition to your CV and work experience.