---
layout: post
title:  "Week 9 -- Great things come from hard work and perseverance. No Excuses."
date:   2022-11-28 10:14:38 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
Learning new technologies and tools is always a challenge. I strongly believe in learning by doing, so in order for me to properly understand the basics of any new thing (in this case React framework and Spring framework), I have to create a project using new technologies.

It took me a month to finish this 'Todo App'. I had to learn the basics of SpringBoot in order to build a nice API. Thie backend contains the model, the service, the controller and the tests. Also, I had to learn the basics of React to build a nice UI and test it. I worked on both sides of the app at the same time in order to check if requests were sent properly to the backend and it sent responds to the frontend.

What I learned during the process of developing this project was not only regarding coding and new technologies, I also learned how to ask for help, how to organize my time and also I believe that I improved my teamwork and communication skills. Soft skills are something that anyone should always try to improve in order to always become a better version of themselves.

### What could I have done different?
Regarding coding, probably I should've first defined a roadmap of what was I going to do and how was I going to do it. Having a structured plan is always better because you just have to follow what you already planned. Also, I belive that, even though I organized my time well, it could have been better. I should have set aside more time for coding tests for both frontend and backend.

Finally the project is done, after a month of hard-work, nights without some sleep, after many questions asked. I learned a lot and I am looking forward on what comes next in my path of becoming a succesful software engineer and developer.