---
layout: post
title:  "Week 4 -- With hard work and effort, you can achieve anything."
date:   2022-10-23 12:14:38 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

This has been the hardest week since I joined Encora. Two weeks ago we were given some tasks that seemed not really that hard, but oh... we were so wrong. For the last two weeks, the Apprentice team and I worked really hard and thoroughly in order to complete all of them. Some of the tasks were a little bit more challenging than the others, but at the end what mattered was finishing all on time.

Probably the "simplest" task was to set up and deploy this blog. For this, I used a tool called "Jekyll". It is a static website generator, optimized for simple blogs, just like this one. The posts are uploaded as a markdown file, and the tool takes care of styling it. I am also hosting it on Github Pages.

Now, the next two tasks were related to a Google Coding Competition called **'Google Code Jam'**. We were given 8 problems, which we had to solve, together, in a span of two weeks. We had at least 3 to 4 meetings each week to work the solutions out as a team, and once we had the algorithms defined, we would decide who was going to code what. Each of the problem had to be coded in 4 different programming languages: Dart, Kotlin, Python and Typescript. There were 2 specific challenges in this task. One was that not everyone knew how to code in all the languages, so we all had to learn the basics of all of them in order to complete it, and the second one was that these problems were hard, so we had to think a lot to get to the correct answers.

At the end, even though it was a difficult task, we all learned a lot from it. We learned how to work as a team for a common goal, we learned the basics of new programming languages and we learned that it takes a lot of effort being succesful.

These two weeks were really difficult, it took a lot of hard work to complete everything on time, but it was worth it. You must put in hard work to be a better version of yourself, as an employee, as a teammate and as a person.  **It was all worth it.** I'm looking forward to what comes next in Encora. Everyday is a new challenge that you must face with the best possible attitude. 